# Enhancing-brain-tumor-diagnosis-by-elevating-MRI-image-classification
Brain tumors are potentially life-threatening diseases that need to be diagnosed as soon as possible to be effectively treated. Enhancing patient results and quality of life requires an accurate and timely classification of brain tumors. This research aims to create an advanced deep-learning model that accurately recognizes brain tumors from MRI images. Through data augmentation and optimization strategies, we improve the Xception architecture's performance by utilizing convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and transfer learning capabilities. The main objective is to develop a strong and trustworthy model that can distinguish between different kinds of brain cancers, such as meningiomas, gliomas, pituitary tumors, and no tumors. We utilize significant data preprocessing and augmentation techniques to improve model generalization using the Brain Tumor MRI Dataset from Kaggle. The dataset consists of 14133 images. We have used several pre-trained CNN models with transfer learning, such as the Xception, ResNet101, and EfficientNetB3 models, to accurately classify the brain tumor MRI images. While all the models performed well on the unseen data and predicted very well on the new data, the exception model outperforms all these and achieves 99% accuracy. This achievement, with remarkable accuracy of 99%, has the potential to improve patient outcomes significantly. The model can efficiently classify brain tumors from MRI images, leading to earlier diagnosis and better patient treatment decisions.
